README.md, before:

# poc-orx-keyframer
Proof-of-concept for a reusable keyframer

I worked out a POC for a highly re-usable keyframer. I've tried many different ways, including even annotation processing, and I have found this is by far the cleanest and simplest. It heavily relies on property delegation -which I've only realized recently is incredibly flexible.

This POC relies on JSON files, but that's not a hard dependency, it can be replaced with any deserializer scheme.

What this allows you to do:

1. Create a keyframed animation in a json file.

```json
[
  {
    "time": 0.0,
    "easing": "cubic-in-out",
    "x": 3.0,
    "y": 4.0,
    "z": 9.0,
    "r": 0.1,
    "g": 0.5,
    "b": 0.2,
    "radius": 50
  },
  {
    "time": 2.0,
    "easing": "cubic-in-out",
    "r": 0.6,
    "g": 0.5,
    "b": 0.1
  },
  {
    "time": 4.0,
    "easing": "cubic-in-out",
    "x": 10.0,
    "y": 4.0,
    "radius": 400
  },
  {
    "time": 5.0,
    "easing": "cubic-in-out",
    "x": 100.0,
    "y": 320.0,
    "radius": 400
  },
  {
    "time": 5.3,
    "easing": "cubic-in-out",
    "x": 100.0,
    "y": 320.0,
    "radius": 40
  }
]
```

2. Map the animation data to Kotlin types:

```kotlin
class Animation : Keyframer() {
    val position by Vector2Channel(arrayOf("x", "y"))
    val radius by DoubleChannel("radius")
    val color by RGBChannel(arrayOf("r", "g", "b"))
}

val animation = Keyframer()
animation.loadFromJson(File("data/keyframes/animation.json"))
```

3. Animate! (from an OPENRNDR program)

```kotlin
extend {
    animation(seconds)
    drawer.fill = animation.color
    drawer.circle(animation.position, animation.radius)
}
```

## Advanced features

[Repeats](data/keyframes/circle-expressions.json), simple key repeating mechanism

[Expressions](data/keyframes/circle-expressions.json), expression mechanism. Currently uses values `r` to indicate repeat index and `t` the last used key time, `v` the last used value (for the animated attribute) 

Note that expressions have broken operator precedence, likely due to [this issue](https://github.com/Strumenta/antlr-kotlin/issues/22)


## Future features

[Parameters and prototypes](data/keyframes/circle-parametric.json)


## Using this as a library

 - clone and run ./gradlew publishToMavenLocal
 - in an openrndr-template based project set `orxUseSnapshot` to `true` (make sure you have a recent snapshot installed)
 - add `poc-orx-keyframer` to `openrndrFeatures`
 - the `repositories` section should look like this:
 ```repositories {
        mavenCentral()
        if (openrndrUseSnapshot || orxUseSnapshot) {
            mavenLocal()
        }
        maven(url = "https://dl.bintray.com/openrndr/openrndr")
    
        maven("https://jitpack.io")
        jcenter()
    }
```

Commit message:

Add (limited) support for functions in expression language

README.md, after:

# poc-orx-keyframer
Proof-of-concept for a reusable keyframer

I worked out a POC for a highly re-usable keyframer. I've tried many different ways, including even annotation processing, and I have found this is by far the cleanest and simplest. It heavily relies on property delegation -which I've only realized recently is incredibly flexible.

This POC relies on JSON files, but that's not a hard dependency, it can be replaced with any deserializer scheme.

What this allows you to do:

1. Create a keyframed animation in a json file.

```json
[
  {
    "time": 0.0,
    "easing": "cubic-in-out",
    "x": 3.0,
    "y": 4.0,
    "z": 9.0,
    "r": 0.1,
    "g": 0.5,
    "b": 0.2,
    "radius": 50
  },
  {
    "time": 2.0,
    "easing": "cubic-in-out",
    "r": 0.6,
    "g": 0.5,
    "b": 0.1
  },
  {
    "time": 4.0,
    "easing": "cubic-in-out",
    "x": 10.0,
    "y": 4.0,
    "radius": 400
  },
  {
    "time": 5.0,
    "easing": "cubic-in-out",
    "x": 100.0,
    "y": 320.0,
    "radius": 400
  },
  {
    "time": 5.3,
    "easing": "cubic-in-out",
    "x": 100.0,
    "y": 320.0,
    "radius": 40
  }
]
```

2. Map the animation data to Kotlin types:

```kotlin
class Animation : Keyframer() {
    val position by Vector2Channel(arrayOf("x", "y"))
    val radius by DoubleChannel("radius")
    val color by RGBChannel(arrayOf("r", "g", "b"))
}

val animation = Keyframer()
animation.loadFromJson(File("data/keyframes/animation.json"))
```

3. Animate! (from an OPENRNDR program)

```kotlin
extend {
    animation(seconds)
    drawer.fill = animation.color
    drawer.circle(animation.position, animation.radius)
}
```

## Advanced features

[Repeats](data/keyframes/circle-expressions.json), simple key repeating mechanism

[Expressions](data/keyframes/circle-expressions.json), expression mechanism. Currently uses values `r` to indicate repeat index and `t` the last used key time, `v` the last used value (for the animated attribute).

Supported functions in expressions:
 - min(x, y), max(x, y)
 - cos(x), sin(x), acos(x), asin(x)
 - abs(x)
 - degrees(x), radians(x)
 - pow(x,y), sqrt(x), exp(x)

Note that expressions have broken operator precedence, likely due to [this issue](https://github.com/Strumenta/antlr-kotlin/issues/22)


## Future features

[Parameters and prototypes](data/keyframes/circle-parametric.json)


## Using this as a library

 - clone and run ./gradlew publishToMavenLocal
 - in an openrndr-template based project set `orxUseSnapshot` to `true` (make sure you have a recent snapshot installed)
 - add `poc-orx-keyframer` to `openrndrFeatures`
 - the `repositories` section should look like this:
 ```repositories {
        mavenCentral()
        if (openrndrUseSnapshot || orxUseSnapshot) {
            mavenLocal()
        }
        maven(url = "https://dl.bintray.com/openrndr/openrndr")
    
        maven("https://jitpack.io")
        jcenter()
    }
```
